.TH DBXML_LOAD 1 "Feb 22, 2011" Debian
.SH NAME
dbxml_load \- load Berkeley DB XML file from plaintext dump
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbxml_load
.RB [ -V ]
.RB [ -f
.IR file ]
.RB [ -h
.IR home ]
.RB [ -P
.IR password ]
.I xml_container
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B dbxml_load
utility reads from the standard input and loads it into the XML container
.IR xml_container .
The XML container
.I xml_container
is created if it does not already exist.
.PP
The input to
.B dbxml_load
must be in the output format specified by the
.BR dbxml_dump (1)
utility.
.PP
The options are as follows:
.TP
.BI -f\  file
ead from the specified
.I file
instead of from the standard input.
.TP
.BI -h\  home
Specify a home directory for the database environment.

If a home directory is specified, the database environment is opened using the
.BR DB_INIT_LOCK ,
.BR DB_INIT_LOG ,
.BR DB_INIT_MPOOL ,
.BR DB_INIT_TXN ,
and
.B DB_USE_ENVIRON
flags to
.BR dbenv_open .
(This means that
.B dbxml_load
can be used to load data into XML containers
while they are in use by other processes.)
If the
.B dbenv_open
call fails, or if no home directory is specified,
the XML container is still updated, but the environment is ignored;
for example, no locking is done.
.TP
.BI -P\  password
Specify an environment password.
Although Berkeley DB utilities overwrite password strings as soon as possible,
be aware there may be a window of vulnerability
on systems where unprivileged users can see command-line arguments
or where utilities are not able to overwrite the memory
containing the command-line arguments.
.TP
.B -V
Write the library version number to the standard output, and exit.
.PP
The
.B dbxml_load
utility may be used with a Berkeley DB environment
(as described for the
.B -h
option, the environment variable
.BR DB_HOME ,
or because the utility was run in a directory
containing a Berkeley DB environment).
In order to avoid environment corruption when using a Berkeley DB environment,
.B dbxml_load
should always be given the chance to detach from the environment
and exit gracefully.
To cause
.B dbxml_load
to release all environment resources and exit cleanly,
send it an interrupt signal (SIGINT).
.PP
The
.B dbxml_load
utility exits 0 on success,
1 if one or more key/data pairs were not loaded into the XML container
because the key already existed,
and >1 if an error occurs.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B DB_HOME
If the
.B -h
option is not specified and the environment variable
.B DB_HOME
is set, it is used as the path of the database home, as described in
.BR dbenv_open .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR db4.8_load (1),
.BR dbxml (1),
.BR dbxml_dump (1)
.SH AUTHOR
.B dbxml_load
is part of Berkeley DB XML, developed by Oracle Corporation.
.PP
This manpage was formatted by Lars Buitinck <larsmans@gmail.com>,
based on the Berkeley DB XML documentation,
for the Debian system (but may be used by others).
