.TH DBXML_DUMP 1 "Feb 22, 2011" Debian
.SH NAME
dbxml_dump \- dump Berkeley DB XML file as plaintext
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbxml_dump
.RB [ -NRrV ]
.RB [ -f
.IR file ]
.RB [ -h
.IR home ]
.RB [ -P
.IR password ]
.I xml_container
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B dbxml_dump
utility reads the XML container in file
.I file
and writes it to the standard output using a portable flat-text format
understood by the
.BR dbxml_load (1)
utility.
The argument
.I xml_container
must be a file produced using the Berkeley DB XML library functions.
.PP
The options are as follows:
.TP
.BI -f\  file
Write to the specified
.I file
instead of to the standard output.
.TP
.BI -h\  home
Specify a home directory for the database environment;
by default, the current working directory is used.
.TP
.B -N
Do not acquire shared region mutexes while running.
Other problems, such as potentially fatal errors in Berkeley DB,
will be ignored as well.
This option is intended only for debugging errors,
and should not be used under any other circumstances.
.TP
.BI -P\  password
Specify an environment password.
Although Berkeley DB utilities overwrite password strings as soon as possible,
be aware there may be a window of vulnerability
on systems where unprivileged users can see command-line arguments
or where utilities are not able to overwrite the memory
containing the command-line arguments.
.TP
.B -R
Aggressively salvage data from a possibly corrupt file.
The
.B -R
flag differs from the
.B -r
option in that it will return all possible data from the file
at the risk of also returning already deleted or otherwise nonsensical items.
Data dumped in this fashion will almost certainly have to be edited by hand
or other means before the data is ready for reload into another XML container.
.TP
.B -r
Salvage data from a possibly corrupt file.
When used on a uncorrupted XML container,
this option should return equivalent data to a normal dump,
but most likely in a different order.
.TP
.B -V
Write the library version number to the standard output, and exit.
.PP
The
.B dbxml_dump
utility may be used with a Berkeley DB environment
(as described for the
.B -h
option, the environment variable
.BR DB_HOME ,
or because the utility was run in a directory
containing a Berkeley DB environment).
In order to avoid environment corruption when using a Berkeley DB environment,
.B dbxml_dump
should always be given the chance to detach from the environment
and exit gracefully.
To cause
.B dbxml_dump
to release all environment resources and exit cleanly,
send it an interrupt signal (SIGINT).
.PP
Even when using a Berkeley DB database environment, the
.B dbxml_dump
utility does not use any kind of database locking if it is invoked with the
.B -R
or
.B -r
arguments. If used with one of these arguments, the
.B dbxml_dump
utility may only be safely run on XML containers
that are not being modified by any other process;
otherwise, the output may be corrupt.
.PP
The
.B dbxml_dump
utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B DB_HOME
If the
.B -h
option is not specified and the environment variable
.B DB_HOME
is set, it is used as the path of the database home, as described in
.BR dbenv_open .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR db4.8_dump (1),
.BR dbxml (1),
.BR dbxml_load (1)
.SH AUTHOR
.B dbxml_dump
is part of Berkeley DB XML, developed by Oracle Corporation.
.PP
This manpage was formatted by Lars Buitinck <larsmans@gmail.com>
based on the Berkeley DB XML documentation
for the Debian system (but may be used by others).
