.TH DBXML_LOAD_CONTAINER 1 "Feb 22, 2011" Debian
.SH NAME
dbxml_load_container \- load XML files into Berkeley DB XML container
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbxml_load_container
.RB [ -c
.IR container ]
.RB [ -h
.IR home ]
.RB [ -s
.IR type ]
.RB [ -f
.IR file_list ]
.RB -p
.IR file_list_path
.RB [ -v ]
.RB [ -V ]
.RB [ -P
.IR password ]
.IR file1.xml ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B dbxml_load_container
utility loads XML documents into the specified container.
XML files can either be specified as arguments,
or they can be specified in a file using the
.B -f
option.
.PP
This utility will attempt to join an environment if one is active.
It is recommended, however, that this tool be used offline.
If the joined environment is transactional,
this utility will also be transactional,
with a separate transaction for each document added.
.PP
The options are as follows:
.TP
.BI -c\  container
Specify the name of the container into which your want to load
the identified documents.
If the container does not currently exist, it is created for you.
This is a required parameter.
.TP
.BI -f\  file
Specify a file that contains a list of XML files to load into the container.
.TP
.BI -h\  home
Specify a home directory for the database environment;
by default, the current working directory is used.
.TP
.BI -P\  password
Specify an environment password.
Although Berkeley DB utilities overwrite password strings as soon as possible,
be aware there may be a window of vulnerability
on systems where unprivileged users can see command-line arguments
or where utilities are not able to overwrite the memory
containing the command-line arguments.
.TP
.BI -s\  type
Specify the container type.
Valid values for
.I type
are:
.RS
.IP \fBnode\fP
Use node-level storage.
XML documents are broken into their individual nodes,
and the nodes are stored as individual records in the underlying database.
This is the default.
.IP \fBwholedoc\fP
Use whole-document storage.
Entire XML documents are stored as individual records
in the underlying database.
.RE
Note that if the container already exists, this option is ignored.
.TP
.B -V
Write the library version number to the standard output, and exit.
.TP
.B -v
Generate verbose output.
.PP
The
.B dbxml_load_container
utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B DB_HOME
If the
.B -h
option is not specified and the environment variable
.B DB_HOME
is set, it is used as the path of the database home, as described in
.BR dbenv_open .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dbxml (1),
.BR dbxml_load (1)
.SH AUTHOR
.B dbxml_load_container
is part of Berkeley DB XML, developed by Oracle Corporation.
.PP
This manpage was formatted by Lars Buitinck <larsmans@gmail.com>,
based on the Berkeley DB XML documentation,
for the Debian system (but may be used by others).
