.TH DBXML 1 "Feb 22, 2011" Debian
.SH NAME
dbxml \- Berkeley DB XML interactive shell
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbxml
.RB [ -ctVvx ]
.RB [ -h
.IR home ]
.RB [ -P
.IR password ]
.RB [ -s
.IR script ]
.RB [ -z
.IR size ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B dbxml
The dbxml utility provides an interactive shell
that you can use to manipulate containers, documents and indices,
and to perform XQuery queries against those containers.
.PP
.B dbxml
uses an optional Berkeley DB home (environment) directory,
which defaults to the current directory.
An attempt is made to join an existing environment;
if that fails, a private environment is created in the specified location.
.B dbxml
has a concept of a default open container;
that is, the container upon which container operations
such as adding and deleting indices are performed.
The default container is set by use of the
.B createContainer
and
.B openContainer
commands.
An in-memory container can be created using the command,
\fBcreateContainer ""\fP.
This is useful for using
.B dbxml
without file system side effects.
.PP
For a list of the commands available in the shell, use the
.B help
command.
For help on a specific command, pass the command's name to the
.B help
command.
For example:
.IP
.B dbxmlsh> help createContainer
.PP
The options are as follows:
.TP
.B -c
Create a new environment in the directory specified by the
.B -h
option.
This option should only be used for debugging \-
since it does not allow you to specify
important environment configuration options.
.TP
.BI -h\  home
Specify a home directory for the database environment;
by default, the current working directory is used.
.TP
.BI -P\  password
Specify an environment password.
Although Berkeley DB utilities overwrite password strings as soon as possible,
be aware there may be a window of vulnerability
on systems where unprivileged users can see command-line arguments
or where utilities are not able to overwrite the memory
containing the command-line arguments.
.TP
.BI -s\  script
Execute the
.B dbxml
commands contained in the
.I script
file upon shell startup.
The commands must be specified one to a line in the
.I script
file.
If any of the commands contained in the
.I script
file fail, the shell will not start.

For example, the following is the contents of a script that creates a container,
loads several files into it, performs a query, and then prints the results:
.RS
.B createContainer myContainer.dbxml
.br
.B putDocument a {<a><b name="doc1">doc1 n1</b><c>doc1 n2</c></a>}
.br
.B putDocument a {<a><b name="doc2">doc2 n1</b><c>doc2 n2</c></a>}
.br
.B putDocument a {<a><b name="doc3">doc3 n1</b><c>doc3 n2</c></a>}
.br
.B query collection("myContainer.dbxml")/a/b
.br
.B print
.RE
.TP
.B -t
Run in transaction mode.
Transactions can be used, and they are required for writes.

Note that if you are running this utility against an existing environment,
and that environment is transactional,
this option will be automatically enabled.
.TP
.B -v
Provide verbose output.
Specify this option a second time to increase the shell's verbosity.
.TP
.B -V
Write the library version number to the standard output, and exit.
.TP
.B -x
Run in secure mode.
XQuery queries cannot access the local filesystem or perform network access.
.TP
.BI -z\  size
If creating an environment, specify the cache size in MB (default 64) in
.IR size .
.PP
If you are using
.B dbxml
to manipulate containers that are managed by an existing database environment,
you must specify the path to that existing database environment.
.B dbxml
cannot be used to create environment files
that can be shared with other applications.
It will either create a private environment,
or join an existing, shareable environment created by another application.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B DB_HOME
If the
.B -h
option is not specified and the environment variable
.B DB_HOME
is set, it is used as the path of the database home, as described in
.BR dbenv_open .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dbxml (1),
.BR dbxml_dump (1),
.BR dbxml_load (1),
.BR dbxml_load_container (1)
.SH AUTHOR
.B dbxml_dump
is part of Berkeley DB XML, developed by Oracle Corporation.
.PP
This manpage was formatted by Lars Buitinck <larsmans@gmail.com>
based on the Berkeley DB XML documentation
for the Debian system (but may be used by others).
